[Music]
consider the school bus
it could be painted literally any color
pink bright green orange or even zebra
print hey I like zebra print so why pick
yellow is it because it's a cheerful hue
that makes kids happy to go to school
see the kids faces I don't think so
the main reason for picking yellow paint
for school buses is safety
but first let's figure out whether
yellow school buses in the US are indeed
that yellow if you look at the color
closely you'll notice that instead of
being pure yellow it's a totally
different shade I would say that it's a
curious mixture of lemon yellow and
orange which reminds me of a very ripe
mango sorry I'm hungry
in any case if you want to be extra
precise you should politely refer to the
color of American and Canadian school
buses as national school bus glossy
yellow but wait what about the
scientifically proven fact that red is
the one with a maximum wavelength what I
mean is that it doesn't get scattered
easily and that's why you can clearly
see it from afar on top of that most
people associate this color with caution
so why not paint school buses red well
despite all this scientific stuff it's
not red but yellow which is the color
that instantly grabs your attention in
daily life in other words for some
inexplicable reasons yellow is the most
visible color on top of that it has a
kind of illuminating nature which makes
it stand out in the darkness fog or dim
light now lots of school buses must
transport children to school early in
the morning depending on the season it's
often still dark outside at this time
this way it makes sense to use yellow
paint which will make buses more
noticeable on the road what's more the
black lettering on the yellow background
is a perfect color combination it
immediately alerts drivers that they're
approaching a school bus during Twilight
hours and finally there's one more
reason for this specific school bus
color choice you've probably heard of
peripheral vision that's when you see
something out of the corner of your eye
without looking directly at it
so scientists state that year one point
two four times more likely to spot a
yellow object with your peripheral
vision than the same object painted red
these are the reasons why you can't
legally have a non yellow school bus in
the US these days but it wasn't always
like this
the National School Bus glossy yellow
color didn't appear until 1939 before
that school buses were painted all kinds
of colors and before there were buses
kids were taken to school in special
wagons drawn by horses hey that sounds
like fun let's bring that back curiously
the very first so-called school bus
appeared in London in 1827 and it could
carry 25 children anyway returning to
1939 and the newly accepted bus shade it
was called National School Bus Chrome
but there was something seriously wrong
with this chrome color scheme school bus
chrome contained lead in its pigment and
this element was and still is for that
matter extremely dangerous for people
especially young children that's why it
was soon replaced with the paint
manufacturers still used today but let's
be honest here if it weren't for safety
reasons what color would you paint
school buses right about your choice in
the comment section below and tell me
why but here's another thing about
school buses that might seem confusing
look in all American states as well as
in most countries around the world you
must wear a seat belt when you're in the
car and it doesn't matter whether you're
a driver or a passenger plus babies
toddlers and young children have to stay
in special car seats fastened with seat
belts this way if you get in a car
accident while wearing a seat belt it
could save your life or keep injuries to
a minimum then why on earth aren't
school buses equipped with seat belts
however paradoxical it may sound seat
belts simply won't make school buses
safer
the thing is that traveling on a school
bus is 40 times safer than going
somewhere by car experts even go as far
as to say that school buses are the
safest type of transport ever how come
it's all thanks to compartmentalization
yeah that's a big word what I mean is
that the seats on a school bus are
situated close to each other and they
have high padded backs as a result if an
accident does happen and a student gets
propelled forward they'll only move a
short distance and the seat back in
front of them will also kind of play the
role of an airbag plus on school buses
people sit high over the ground which
only adds to the overall safety if
another vehicle collides with a school
bus all the impact will occur under the
seats but I would be lying if I didn't
mention another more practical reason
for the lack of seat belts on school
buses money mo any y mulac padding seat
belts would increase the cost of each
bus by eight thousand to fifteen
thousand dollars plus buses would have
fewer seats because seat belts would
take additional space as a result
schools would have to increase the fleet
of their buses by approximately fifteen
percent however a bigger number of
vehicles would still carry the same
number of kids and here's where it would
start to get out of control the changes
would mean more gas more drivers and
more co2 emissions uh-oh anyway these
days the scheme is the following if a
school bus weighs more than 10,000
pounds it's up to the states to decide
whether the vehicles need to be equipped
with seat belts or not today only six
states make schools equip their buses
with seat belts and they are Florida
California New Jersey Texas New York and
Louisiana but if a school bus is lighter
than 10,000 pounds it has to be equipped
with seat belts in any state by the way
the other day I was driving behind a
school bus and noticed something I've
never seen before under the belly of the
bus there were some chains hanging and
even slightly dragging over
the ground of course as soon as I
returned home I started a full-on google
search and I found out that not all
school buses have these changed because
honestly you won't need them in let's
say California the thing is that the
chains help school buses get traction on
icy roads
the chains are linked to the suspension
system of the bus if a driver realizes
that they can't cope without some
additional help they can just press a
button on the dashboard it releases tiny
rubber chain wheels that are located
next to the buses back tires then when
the bus accelerates these chain wheels
spin and throw the chain links under the
tires while ah
slowly but surely the bus is going
forward again at the same time when the
bus isn't moving or slowing down the
driver can retract the chains also have
you ever seen a school bus with a black
hood and wondered why it wasn't the same
yellow as the body the thing is that
when the Sun is too bright the glossy
bright yellow paint covering the hood of
the bus starts to give off too much
glare as a result it makes it hard for
the driver to see their surroundings and
distracts them from the situation on the
road that's when the flat black painted
hood comes into play it significantly
cuts down on the glare and allows the
driver to see clearly and well some
states make school bus manufacturers
equip vehicles with black hoods others
forbid it in this case they get covered
with an anti glare substance after that
the hood remains yellow but the shade
gets called lustreless yellow and
finally to court the rock band The Who
every day I get in the queue to get on
the bus that takes me to you too much
magic bus hey if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]